## Disease-specific plasma protein profiles in patients with fever after traveling to tropical areas

Fever is common among individuals seeking healthcare after traveling to tropical regions. Despite the association with potentially severe disease, the etiology is often not determined. Plasma protein patterns can be informative to understand the host-response to infection and can potentially indicate the pathogen causing the disease. In this study, we measured 49 proteins in the plasma of 124 patients with fever after travel to tropical or subtropical regions. The patients had confirmed diagnoses of either malaria, dengue fever, influenza, bacterial respiratory tract infection, or bacterial gastroenteritis, representing the most common etiologies. We used multivariate and machine learning methods to identify combinations of proteins that contributed to distinguishing infected patients from healthy controls, and each other. Malaria displayed the most unique protein signature, indicating a strong immunoregulatory response with high levels of IL10, sTNFRI and II, and sCD25 but low levels of sCD40L. In contrast, bacterial gastroenteritis had high levels of sCD40L, APRIL, and IFN-gamma, while dengue was the only infection with elevated IFNalpha2. These results suggest that characterization of the inflammatory profile of individuals with fever can help to identify disease-specific host responses, which in turn can be used to guide future research on diagnostic strategies and therapeutic interventions.

Publication: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38308504/
